so here's the problem the elephant's
need to be able to pull the table closer
to gain access to the sunflower seeds
and they need the rope to do that but if
only one of them pulls the rope the
table doesn't move and they both go
hungry so can two elephants figure out
they need to work together to solve a
brand new problem
[Music]
they don't get it first time out that
for sure but their 4 kilogram brains may
just be at work the first thing I think
that they learn and there has to be some
learning involved in this is a task
they've never experienced before the
first thing is that they've learned that
their partner needs to be there and I
think in some ways they've learned not
only does their partner need to be there
but their partner needs to be doing
something
[Music]
after only three attempts the smartest
elephant solve the puzzle but Josh wants
to know if they understand the concept
behind us so he releases one elephant
before the other to see if it'll wait
for its partner
[Music]
after eight years of working with
elephants Josh had a hunt that were
going to happen and now he's got proof
would you're seeing is that the
elephants are thinking about cooperation
and that actually demonstrates how smart
and how well adapted these animals are
it's incredible to prove that animals
are smart enough to cooperate